# @lavamoat/allow-scripts

A tool for running only the dependency lifecycle hooks specified in an _allowlist_.

> For an overview of LavaMoat tools see [the main README](https://github.com/LavaMoat/LavaMoat/tree/main/README.md)

## Usage

`@lavamoat/allow-scripts` increases your project's security posture by first _denying_ all lifecycle scripts from running, then _allowing_ the ones you actually need. The workflow looks like this:

1. Run `allow-scripts setup` **once** per project to opt-out of running scripts
2. Run `allow-scripts auto` to populate or update the allowlist (configured in `package.json`)
3. Run `allow-scripts run` after every install to run the lifecycle scripts

We recommend using the globally installed `@lavamoat/allow-scripts` for initial the initial `setup`. Thereafter, install it as a project-local development dependency to enable contributors to execute allowed scripts.

### Install globally

```sh
npm i -g @lavamoat/allow-scripts
```

Be sure to include the `@lavamoat/` namespace in the package name.

Now without triggering an installation in the project you're setting up, you can go to the project folder and run:

```sh
allow-scripts setup
```

And proceed to the **Configure** section

### Project-local installation

Adds the package to start using it in your project. be sure to include the `@lavamoat/` namespace in the package name.

Use any of the following:

```sh
npm i -D @lavamoat/allow-scripts
yarn add -D @lavamoat/allow-scripts
pnpm add -D @lavamoat/allow-scripts
```

In the following steps you will continue using `yarn` or `npx --no-install` if you've installed locally. Local installation is also directly callable in your project's `"scripts"` in `package.json`

Example

```sh
yarn allow-scripts setup
npx --no-install allow-scripts setup
```

> [!WARNING]
>
> If `@lavamoat/allow-scripts` is not already installed, `npx` will prompt to download and run package `allow-scripts` (missing the `@lavamoat` scope) **which is a different package**. We suggest using `npx --no-install` to prevent accidents.

### Setup

```sh
allow-scripts setup
```

Adds (or updates) a `.yarnrc` or `.npmrc` (depending on which lockfile is present) file in the current package and appends `ignore-scripts=true`.

`pnpm` ignores scripts by default, but the `.npmrc` file is generated by default. It's worth keeping in case someone goes for `npm install` before they notice pnpm is used in the repo.

Immediately after creating the configuration file, allow-scripts setup adds the devDependency `@lavamoat/preinstall-always-fail`. It is intended to remain disallowed. Adding this package to a project **mitigates** against accidentally running any lifecycle scripts by throwing an error during the `preinstall` script execution in case someone deletes the `.npmrc`

### Populate the allowlist

`allow-scripts auto` generates and writes a configuration into your `package.json`, setting new policies to `false` (deny) by default.

After execution, you may enable packages' lifecycle scripts by setting the associated policies to `true` (allow).

```sh
allow-scripts auto
```

Configuration goes in `package.json`

```json
{
  "lavamoat": {
    "allowScripts": {
      "keccak#3.0.4": false,
      "rezeplayer>core-js#3.49.0": false
    }
  }
}
```

If `allowScripts` has an item set to true, the lifecycle scripts of that package will be executed in the run phase if the currently installed version matches.

> [!NOTE]
>
> - `allow-scripts` is pinning versions of the dependencies with lifecycle since v5.
> - Items set to `false` will be updated via `allow-scripts auto` to the current detected version.
> - To avoid churn in the list, you can remove the `#version` suffix from a disallowed item and it will be denied regardless of version.
> - Versions are mandatory for allowed packages in case of maintainer compromise.
> - You can opt out of this behavior with the `--skip-versions` flag on both `auto` and `run`.

> [!TIP]
>
> While you can configure all install scripts that you've been running to date as allowed, it's best to limit the number of them in case a package with pre-existing install script gets exploited. To determine which packages' scripts can be safely ignored, try [can-i-ignore-scripts](https://www.npmjs.com/package/can-i-ignore-scripts).

### Run

Run **all** lifecycle scripts for the packages specified in `package.json`

```sh
allow-scripts run
```

It will fail if it detects dependencies which haven't been set up during [configuration](#Configure) of the package. You will be advised to run `yarn allow-scripts auto`.

### List

> _Alias: **debug**_

Prints all information `allow-scripts` uses to populate and run the allowed scripts.

```sh
allow-scripts list
```

### Check

Exits 1 if the allowlist needs maintenance. Useful for CI to avoid running all tests on an installation that's missing results of lifecycle scripts.

```sh
allow-scripts check
```

### Improving your Workflow

Consider adding a _setup_ npm script for all your post-install steps to ensure the running of your allowed scripts. This can be just a regular script (_no magic needed!_). Also, it is a good place to add other post-processing commands you want to use.

In the future when you add additional post-processing scripts, e.g. [`patch-package`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/patch-package), you can add them to this _setup_ script.

:thought_balloon: You will need to make an effort to remember to run `yarn setup` instead of just `yarn` :lotus_position:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "setup": "yarn install && yarn allow-scripts && ..."
  }
}
```

# Experimental protection against bin script confusion

Bin script confusion is a new attack where a dependency gets its script to run by declaring executables that end up on the path and later get triggered either by the user or by other programs. More details in [npm bin script confusion: Abusing ‘bin’ to hijack ‘node’ command](https://socket.dev/blog/npm-bin-script-confusion) by Socket.dev

To enable protection against bin script confusion, run all of the above `allow-scripts` commands with the `--experimental-bins` flag.

What does it do?

- `setup` will add a new configuration option to your project package manager RC file to disable linking up bin scripts
- `auto` will generate an allowlist of top-level bin scripts allowed for execution
- `run` will link up the allowed scripts and replace not allowed scripts with an error

When you attempt to run a bin script not in the allowlist, you will get an error with instructions on how to enable it manually.
